sketching the model- http://www.muddycolors.com/2015/05/10-things-sketching-the-model/

figure drawing basics - http://www.muddycolors.com/2017/08/figure-drawing-repeating-what-you-should-already-know/

figure drawing resources - http://www.muddycolors.com/2017/02/figure-drawing-resources-redux/

figure drawing youtube - https://www.youtube.com/user/onairvideo/videos

chill music to figure draw to - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NliYy7iqh-U

chill music to figure draw to 2 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NntQ86FHcMY

chill music to figure draw to 3 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oXSOej4oN10&t=14s

other resources - https://line-of-action.com/practice-tools/figure-drawing/


<h3>Here are some great links for Figure Drawing resources</h3>
<p><a href=".http://www.muddycolors.com/2017/02/figure-drawing-resources-redux/">FIGURE DRAWING RESOURCES REDUX</a> from Muddy Colors has some great references. In addition, Muddy Colors is a great site for artist made articles and resources. I highly reccomend checking them out.</p>
<br>
<p><a href=".http://www.muddycolors.com/2017/02/figure-drawing-resources-redux/">FIGURE DRAWING: REPEATING WHAT YOU SHOULD ALREADY KNOW</a> is another article on Muddy Colors that I reccomend giving a read. It's filled with a lot of interesting information regarding figure drawing and some helpful advice.</p>





figure drawing - drawing of the human figure
--
a fundamental skill of artists is being able to translate the human figure onto
the 2D plane accurately and quickly.

That is what figural drawing is. And what's great is that once you have the
basics down, you can develop these skills on your own. You just have to look
at the figure, which you know is accurate, and apply some critical thinking in
order to understand the issues with your drawing and correct them the next time.

I will not tell you how to figure draw here, for the purposes of this
assignment, that would take much too long.

However, there are great resources out there and if you can, i highly reccomend
taking a class. Instead, I'll share with you some tips and tricks I have learned.

Figure drawing is different than drawing a human figure. It is meant to instill
skills to help you communicate what a figure is on a 2D plane quickly and efficiently.

--

Some staring tips:
  focus on the form or shapes of the figure.
      Don't worry so much about details. you want to have an accurate
      representation of the figure on the page more than you want to see
      every hair on the head.

      In addition, you should not rely on hard line too much. There is an
      imaginary line bordering a part of a human figure and what is not that
      part, sure. But the form of an object is often conveyed best and simplest
      using the transition from light to dark. the gradation of shadow to
      mid-tone to light.

      Illustrating this throught hard line is often inefficient and does not
      convey the same mass and weight. That is to say the volume of the object
      and the part of that object where things fall

      If a hard line is appropriate after you have done this, use it.


  When just starting out figure drawing, you should limit the information you
  are trying to convey. So working in a monochromatic color scheme is best.


  I recommend several tools to have when starting out:
    Charcoal or graphite of varying sizes, hardness', and widths
    A soft gummy Eraser
    A hard, edged, eraser, I find the flat oval erasers to work well.
    A white mark making tool. there are some good medium hardness chalks. I believe I've heard of a white charcoal even.
    a blending tool of some sort
    Grey newsprint paper. Cheap and has a good middle-ground for bite. Provides a good mid-tone color. It wont take a lot of stress. as a rule, bigger is better.
    Green frog tape. always good to have and one of the best for painting as well.

  There are fundamental skills you need:
      proportion, perspective, basic human anatomy

      so setting up still lives and working from those is always a good idea
      when starting out. In particular, you want your objects to move back into
      space, be at strange angles, and incorporate objects that are a little weird
      or you feel will challenge yourself.I know it can seem boring but it is an
      important step to getting these fundamentals down using simpler shapes.

      This is a good series to start with when studying the basics of anatomy
          https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BvrocH4noms&list=PLq1TGG6lDQ2y6sm5ODEIPWZu8pBPpuN3E

  Keep yourself timed
      Don't skimp out on this. you're trying to illustrate the human figure
      quickly and accurately. by setting a time limit and only focusing on
      what is necissary, you train your eye to pick out only the most
      important information to convey.

  Don't work from magazines or comics
    They are often not realistic, drawing from life is real and will help
    reenforce positive associations and natural forms.

  If you can, always work larger.
    It helps you to think in a different scale and to focus on large areas of
    shadow and light. You are also able to fanagle a bit more with the
    information on the page.

--

resources

--
Minor topics that you should be aware of when figure drawing:
  Ground your figure
    Most importantly, place accurate shadow on the plane where your figure
    stands. otherwise they'll be floating in a void of nothing.

  be sure to pay attention to how the sitter and therefore your figure
    interacts with the environment around them. how do their feet plant on the
    ground, what happens when the sole meets the hard plane of the floor or the
    palm meets a wall or chair

  don't draw everything
    if a single line will do to illustrate the point, use a single line.
    Learn line literacy and how to express volume with a line. curved lines,
    lines that go from thin to thick, and vice versa are all ways of accurately
    depicting the volume and weight of a figure.

    In addition, when you do use detail, don't detail all over. detail creates a
    focal point so be aware that any detail you use will draw the eye of the
    viewer to that spot.

    That detail must also be contrasted with the vague. Smudge, smear, lighten,
    erase, or thin lines to convey a sense of mystery to that part of the piece.
    emphasizing the focal point.

  Treat the sides of your forms differently
    To add to the feeling of volume in a form, don't treat both sides of it the
    same. differ line weight and or value to emphasize the change from one side
    to another and pull the eye around. this also adds to the interest of the
    piece without becoming too detailed.

  Don't be afraid to smudge, drag, or erase the lines or shapes of your drawing
    There are many ways that these techniques can add to the drawing.
    Smudging or dragging a shape or line can make it vague or create a gradient
    for the shadow. (when doing this, don't forget to consult the different
    parts of a shadow as well as what is on the figure in order to accurately
    depict it)

    Erasing can create a bit of mid-tone or light and help break a line or
    make it illustrate volume. Never be to attached to the drawing to erase.

--
video tutorials to help with common issues:

Some things people often struggle with:
  drawing the head:  Reilly Method of Head Drawing

--

  Some good art tips in general
    take breaks often
      Breathe, drink water, walk around, stretch. Just get up from your artwork
      and take care of yourself. I typically give myself 10 minutes to get away
      from working every 30-40min. It's a healthy habit to get into that will
      keep you from reaching burnout or injuring yourself through stain.

    You will always be a student.
      So don't worry about mastery so much as improvement. I guarantee the artists
      you aspire to be like are always studying and improving. Be satisfied with
      where you are now but stagnate.

      This isn't to say, don't be happy, just recognize that there is always ways
      to improve and that you will always be learning.

      The most important thing to take from this is to NEVER STOP IMPROVING.

    Don't compare your work to others
      You can only compare your work to what you've done before. Focusing too
      much on how much better or worse others are in comparison to you is not
      only mentally draining, but also a terrible way to breed competition and
      unhealthy thought-processes among your community.

      Strive for your own goals. Know that your work and you, has and is valuable.

    Look at others
      I can guarantee that someone has already figured out the process you are
      struggling with. By keeping a list of inspirational artists you admire,
      processes you like, and resources, you make it easier to visualize your
      goals and figure out how to improve.

      When looking at these resources, remember to think critically about what you
      like about the piece or artist and why. Then how you can work to incorporate
      it into your toolset.

    Set work aside/ step back from work
      Sometimes, you need to put a piece aside if it's not working for you.
      That's okay. Work on something else or just go do something else.
      Come back to it later with more energy and fresh eyes

      It is also important to always, always, always step back from your work.
      Literally look at it from farther away. Viewing a piece as a whole will
      often reveal problems or missing information.

    Practice your fundamentals.
      Some advice I've often heard given and practice a lot is to always go back
      to your fundamentals. It's important to come back to them after having
      improved. You're able to see more and often gain more from refining your
      grasp of the fundamentals of art.

      Think of your art skills as a building. The fundamentals are the foundation
      of your building, a foundation you can continuously reenforce and that will
      improve nearly every other aspect of your artistic talents.

      It can seem dull and boring but if you invest yourself into it, you can
      find enjoyment in it.

    Dont be too invested in your final piece
      Being too invested in the piece at it's final form has several problems:
        Underworking
          You can be too excited to finish a piece and not complete it to the
          best of your ability. This is rare but still happens.

        breeds dissatisfaction
          If you're too invested in the end product of a piece you will often
          be dissatisfied with the process of creating. Instead, find joy in your
          process. the making aspect is 90% of the time you spend with your piece.
          I guarentee you will be more satisfied if you find joy in making the art
          rather than looking at the final product.

        keeps you from moving on
          At some point you have to say a piece is done and be done with it. you may
          not be happy with the final product but that's a repeating reality you'll
          have to live with as you grow and improve. Knowing when a piece should be
          called done is an important skill to learn.

          Having a medium amount of quality work is better than having too little
          work that has been overworked.

        keeps you from letting go/ selling a piece
          One reason I was given for not being too invested in the end result of
          your creative process is that you'll often (and with any luck) be
          selling your work. If you're too invested in your final pieces, it can
          be difficult to let them go or price them appropriately.

        Balance your expectations with your investment and find a happy and
        healthy medium.

    Always be creating
      That's it. By always being in a state of creation, you improve. Creation
      doesn't have to be the act of creating work. It can be thinking creatively
      or solving problems.

      Even small things you might consider doodles. (I have an issue with the
      word but we'll set that aside right now)

    It's okay to not do your best
      You should never not put your all into a piece but sometimes you just don't
      have the same creative energy. That is okay. You're not creative a machine.

      When this happens, try not to get frustrated and understand that it happens.
      If something isn't working out, just work on some other part of the piece or
      something else altogether It can help you push through.

    It's okay to take breaks
      If you're feeling stressed, frustrated, or are just unable to work and need
      a break. Take it. You can always come back to the work. I find this is
      often because I haven't been taking breaks or treating myself and my health
      right. So you can take a break and recouperate. Do something else that you
      enjoy. Spend time with people, play games, watch movies, go for a walk, cook
      good food, clean, or in any other way de-stress.

      You need balance in your life and that includes mental expendature.

      On that note. Have other things you like to do. Don't let art (as much as I
      love it) be the only source of happiness, enjoyment, or fulfillment in
      your life. Curate your interests and have well rounded sources of interest
      and happiness.

    Don't over work
      Investing too much time or being too obsessive about a piece can often have
      the opposite effect of making it look worse that it would've three hours prior.

  --


  <a href="http://www.studyofcs.com" title="Tricks Site">Studyofcs</a>
